.TH AGC 1 "March 28, 1990"
.AT 3
.SH NAME
agc \- automatic gain control for \(*m-law audio data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B agc
[\fB\-d\fIfract\fR]
[\fB\-l\fIdB\fR]
[\fB\-m\fIdB\fR]
[\fB\-w\fIsec\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIAgc\fP reads \(*m-law audio data from the standard input,
compresses/expands it to provide a specified output level,
and writes the result to the standard output.
.IP \fB\-d\fIfract\fR
Set the damping factor to \fIfract\fP.
The damping factor governs the release time (how quickly the gain recovers
from extremes).  The default value is 0.5; setting it lower shortens the
release time; at 0 the release is instantaneous; at 1 the release is infinite.
.IP \fB\-l\fIdB\fR
Set the output level to \-\fIdB\fP decibels (note the minus sign).
\fB0\fP represents the maximum volume, \fB6\fP is half as loud, etc.
The default is \fB\-l1\fP (slightly less than maximum volume).
.IP \fB\-m\fIdB\fR
Set the maximum gain to \fIdB\fP decibels.
\fIAgc\fP will limit its amplification to this figure
(otherwise it tries to amplify long silences unreasonably).
The default is \fB\-m6\fP (twice the volume).
.IP \fB\-w\fIsec\fR
Set the length of the window (or delay line) used to determine source level.
The default is one second, \fB\-w1.0\fP; shorter values make more abrupt
changes, larger values make smoother changes.
.LP
The technique used by \fIagc\fP is to simulate a delay line by buffering data
(the amount is determined by the \fB\-w\fP option).
The gain applied to the sample coming out of the delay line is
determined by the maximum value in the delay line (\fImaxv\fP),
the lower limit on \fImaxv\fP set by \fB\-m\fP (\fIminmax\fP),
the desired maximum value set by \fB\-l\fP (\fIlevel\fP),
the damping factor (\fIdamp\fP),
and the damped maximum from the previous sample (\fIomax\fP)
according to these relationships:
.sp
.in +0.5i
if (\fImaxv\fP < \fIminmax\fP) then \fImaxv\fP = \fIminmax\fP
.sp
\fIomax\fP = \fIdamp\fP * \fIomax\fP + (1. - \fIdamp\fP) * \fImaxv\fP
.sp
output = (sample * \fIlevel\fP) / \fIomax\fP
.in -0.5i
.SH SEE ALSO
gate(1), norm(1), squelch(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Langston, Bell Communications Research (bellcore!psl)
