.TH BSSA 1 "MIDI"
.SH NAME
bssa - stand-alone version of IMG
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bssa
[\fB\-c\fR[\fIfile\fR]]
[\fB\-l\fI##\fR[\fBf\fR|\fBs\fR|\fB:\fI##\fR]]
[\fB\-o\fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR[\fIfile\fR]]
[\fB\-v\fR[\fIfile\fR]]
\fIstyle\fP
[\fB>\fImpu_output\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Bssa
uses the routines in \fIbscomp\fP(3), \fIbssetup\fP(3), and \fIbsstyle\fP(3)
to compose music in the manner(s) described in the documentation for
\fIIMG\fR(1).
The major difference between \fIbssa\fP and \fIIMG\fP is that
\fIbssa\fP has no screen interface and is not interactive.
So read the documentation on \fIIMG\fP(1), \fIbscomp\fP(3),
\fIbssetup\fP(3), and \fIbsstyle\fP(3) and you'll be able to guess the rest.
.IP -c
The \fB\-c\fP argument can be used to create a command file to play the
resulting piece.  If the \fIFILE\fP specification is missing, the command
file will be sent to the standard error output (stderr).
If no \fB\-o\fP argument appears (so the program does not know the name
of the resulting MPU file), the command file generated will expect the
MPU data to be provided as the standard input (stdin).
.IP -l
The \fB\-l\fP argument determines the length of the generated piece.
The length can be specified as seconds or video frames (30 per second) or
a combination of both.  Running ``bssa -times'' will give a list of examples.
Each style has a default length (in case no \fB\-l\fP argument appears).
.IP -o
The \fB\-o\fP argument directs \fIbssa\fP to put the MPU output in the
specified file.  Unlike the other arguments that take file names, \fB\-o\fP
\fIrequires\fP a file name.
If no \fB\-o\fP argument appears, the MPU output will be sent
to the standard output (stdout).
.IP -s
The \fB\-s\fP argument specifies a IMG-style setup file.
These files define style and synthesizer parameters.
See \fIbssetup\fP(3) for further information.
If the \fIFILE\fP specification is missing, the setup file will be read from
the standard input (stdin).
The default synthesizer setup is for a Roland D110.
.IP -v
The \fB\-v\fP argument can be used to generate a verbose description of the
piece composed.
If the \fIFILE\fP specification is missing, the description
will be sent to the standard error output (stderr).
.IP style
Style must be one of the five-character style names in the current style
database (which is affected by the \fB\-s\fP option).
Running ``bssa [\fB\-s\fR[\fIfile\fR]] help'' should give you a list.
The \fIstyle\fP argument is required; there is no default style.
.SH FILES
/u/psl/MIDI/BS/etc/*.setup	sample style/synth setup files
.SH SEE ALSO
bscomp(3), bssetup(3), bsstyle(3), ddmt(1), IMG(1), sbsd(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Langston, Bell Communications Research (bellcore!psl)
