.TH KEY2NAME 3  MIDI
.SH NAME
key2name, name2key, key2pc, pc2key, sh2ks \- convert key names to MIDI numbers & vice-versa
.SH SYNOPSIS
.Cs +0
cc ... \-lmidi
.sp
char *key2name(key)
int key;
.sp
int name2key(name)
char *name;
.sp
char *key2pc(key)
int key;
.sp
int pc2key(name)
char *name;
.sp
char *sh2ks(sharps)
int key;
.Ce
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIKey2name(key)\fP
returns a pointer to a static char buffer containing the name of the key
specified as a MIDI key number in \fIkey\fP.
Accidentals will always be returned as flats
(e.g. key2name(61) returns ``Db3'').
.PP
\fIName2key(name)\fP
returns the MIDI key number for the specified ascii key name.
Both sharps and flats are recognized, as are double sharps, etc.
(e.g. name2key("C###3") returns 63 decimal).
Octaves may have any value from ``-2'' to ``8''.
On error, \fIname2key(name)\fP returns -1 if the pitch class letter was
bad (i.e. not in {A,B,C,D,E,F,G}), or -2 if the octave was outside the
range -2 to 8.
.PP
\fIKey2pc(key)\fP
returns a pointer to a static char buffer containing the name of the
key's pitch class (a pitch with no octave specified).
Key is specified as a MIDI key number in \fIkey\fP.
Accidentals will always be returned as flats (e.g. key2pc(61) returns ``Db'').
.PP
\fIPc2key(name)\fP
returns the MIDI key number for the specified ascii pitch class name.
Both sharps and flats are recognized, as are double sharps, etc.
(e.g. pc2key("C###") returns 3).
Although this was designed specifically for ``names'' (i.e. those beginning
with upper-case alphabetics), it will also interpret numeric values such as
``1'', ``61'', ``075'', ``0x3d'', ``+13'', and ``-11''; all of which are
equivalent to ``Db''.
If the value passed to \fIpc2key(name)\fP can not be interpreted as any of
these forms, -1 will be returned.
.PP
\fISh2ks(sharps)\fP
returns a pointer to a static char buffer containing the name of the
key signature with the specified number of \fIsharps\fP.
A negative number is used to indicate flats.
The normal range for \fIsharps\fP is -7 (``Cb'') to +7 (``C#''),
however key signatures as extreme -12 (``Dbb'') and +12 (``B#'') are provided.
Values outside this range are folded back in
(e.g. -17 sharps \(== -5 sharps \(== 5 flats \(== ``Db'').
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Langston, Bell Communications Research (bellcore!psl)
