.TH MECHO 1 "MIDI"
.SH NAME
mecho - add echo to a MIDI file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mecho
[\fB\-b\fPBARS|\fB\-c\fPCLOCKS]
[\fB\-g\fP#.#]
[\fB\-t\fP#]
[echolist\fB=\fPsourcelist] ...
< file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mecho
merges a copy of the key-on, key-off events from a MIDI file
with the file.
The copied events may be delayed, transposed, or have their key velocites
scaled.
.PP
The amount of delay may either be specified in bars
(defined as 480 MPU clocks), using \fB\-b\fP
with a (possibly floating-point) number,
or in MPU clocks, using \fB\-c\fP with an integer.
Thus, \fB\-b0.5\fP and \fB\-c240\fP are equivalent.
The delay may be zero (the default), but may not be negative.
.PP
If \fB\-g\fP is specified it sets the gain for the echoes.
A gain of 127.0 or more assures that the echoes will be at maximum volume
(key velocity 127),
whereas a gain of 0.015 or less assures that the echoes will all
have velocity 1.
The default gain is 1.0.
.PP
The \fB\-t\fP argument may be used to transpose the echo by the specified
number of half-steps.
The default is a transposition of 0.
.PP
The echo may either appear on the same channel as the original note, or
on another channel.
The echolist\fB=\fPsourcelist argument(s) is(are) used to specify echo
channel mappings.
The lists have the same format as those used in chmap(1).
If the lists are not of equal length, one of them must be of a single
channel number.
.SH EXAMPLES
.Cs
mecho \-c8 <lennon >yoko
.Ce
will add a reverberant "slap-back" sound, while
.Cs
mecho \-c8 \-g0.5 <lemon >okra
.Ce
will add an echo at one half the key velocity of the original.
Either of:
.Cs
mecho \-b0.5 <scale >thirds
tshift \-b0.5 <scale >junk; merge scale junk >thirds
.Ce
will double up the 1st and 3rd, 2nd and 4th, etc. quarter notes;
while:
.Cs
mecho \-b0.5 \-t12 <scale >sixths
.Ce
will double the notes in the same way, raising the echo by an octave.
.PP
To have the echo of one instrument played on another instrument,
and the echo from that instrument played on the first, you might use:
.Cs
play "|mecho \-b0.5 1,2=2,1 <scales"
.Ce
.SH SEE ALSO
chmap(1), filter(1), merge(1), tshift(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Langston, Bell Communications Research (bellcore!psl)
