.TH MPUCLEAN 1 "MIDI"
.SH NAME
mpuclean \- clean up mpu data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpuclean
[\fB\-L\fP\fI#\fP]
[\fB\-Multiple\fP]
[\fB\-multiple\fP]
[\fB\-pressure\fP]
[\fB\-tcis\fP]
[\fB\-tcwme\fP]
< file(s)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mpuclean
cleans up several common mpu data file inefficiencies/bugs:
.PP
1) Multiple mode commands are deleted, e.g.
.ft L
.nf
 0 90 3c 40 ;    0.000      0 kon   [ 60]=64  C4 key on
5d 90 3c  0 ;    0.775      1 koff  [ 60]=0   C4 key off
.ft P
becomes:
.ft L
 0 90 3c 40 ;    0.000      0 kon   [ 60]=64  C4 key on
5d    3c  0 ;    0.775      1 koff  [ 60]=0   C4 key off
.fi
.ft P
.PP
2) Multiply re-played notes are retriggered
(unless the \fB\-Multiple\fP or \fB\-multiple\fP arguments are used).
Preceding each extra note-on an extra note-off is inserted and all but
the final note-off are ignored;
thus the sequence: \fLC4-on, C4-on, G4-on, C4-off, G4-off, C4-off\fP
becomes: \fLC4-on, C4-off, C4-on, G4-on, G4-off, C4-off\fP.
If \fB\-Multiple\fP is used (note capitalization),
all extra key-ons will be removed and only the last note-off will remain
(i.e. just the first note-on and its matching note-off are left);
the previous sequence becomes: \fLC4-on, G4-on, G4-off, C4-off\fP.
If \fB\-multiple\fP is used, none of the notes will be removed.
If \fIboth\fP \fB\-multiple\fP and \fB\-Multiple\fP are used,
extra note-ons are removed and only the \fIfirst\fP note-off remains.
Thus the previous sequence becomes: \fLC4-on, G4-on, C4-off, G4-off\fP.
.PP
3) Unmatched note-offs are removed.  These are used by some programs
to act as place holders but become "noise" when those files get
combined.
.PP
4) Pressure change data is deleted unless the \fB\-pressure\fP
(or \fB\-p\fP for short) argument is given.
.PP
5) ``Timing clock in stop'' messages are deleted unless the \fB\-tcis\fP
(or \fB\-tci\fP for short) argument is given.
.PP
6) If the \fB\-L\fP argument is used,
timing clock with measure end commands are inserted at intervals
specified (in MPU clocks) by the \fB\-L\fP argument (default 480).
.PP
7) Multiple ``Timing clock with measure end'' messages (more than one at a
given MPU clock time) are deleted unless the \fB\-tcwme\fP (or \fB\-tcw\fP for
short) argument is given.
.PP
8) At the end of the piece, any keys that had note-ons with no corresponding
note-offs are given note-offs and then a final TCWME is appended (without
adding any time to the piece) if the piece didn't already end with a TCWME.
.PP
Example:
.Cs
mpuclean \-L <bach >shorter.bach
.Ce
performs all the processing described above
(measure length defaults to 480 MPU clocks),
while:
.Cs
mpuclean \-p <bach >shorter.bach
.Ce
does not remove the channel pressure codes.
.SH SEE ALSO
dack(1), midimode(1), select(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Langston, Bell Communications Research
(bellcore!psl)
