.TH NORM 1 "March 29, 1990"
.AT 3
.SH NAME
norm \- normalize gain on \(*m-law audio data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B norm
[\fB\-d\fIsec\fR]
[\fB\-l\fIdB\fR]
[\fB\-verbose\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fINorm\fP reads \(*m-law audio data from the standard input,
determines its maximum level,
amplifies or attenuates the entire file to make the maximum level be
the specified level,
and writes the result to the standard output.
.IP \fB\-d\fIsec\fR
Set the minimum time (in milliseconds) required to qualify as the maximum.
The default is \fB\-d0.125\fP.
Since \(*m-law data is sampled at a rate of 0.125 milliseconds per sample,
the default is one sample.  Thus, if, in an otherwise quiet sound file,
there is a pop or click that makes a single large sample, the file will be
treated as if it were all as loud as the pop.  With \fB\-d\fP set higher,
the definition of the maximum level will be more noise immune.
.IP \fB\-l\fIdB\fR
Set the target maximum output level to \-\fIdB\fP decibels
(note the minus sign).
\fB0\fP represents the maximum possible volume, \fB6\fP is half as loud, etc.
The default is \fB\-l1\fP (slightly less than maximum volume).
.IP \fB\-verbose\fR
Give information about the maximum level found in the file.
.LP
The technique used by \fInorm\fP is to make an initial pass through the data
looking for the maximum value and then a second pass scaling all the data.
The maximum is determined by generating a histogram and then,
starting at the highest level,
the \fB\-d\fP value is decremented by the frequency counts until it
becomes zero or negative \- that value is called the maximum.
.SH SEE ALSO
agc(1), gate(1), squelch(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Langston, Bell Communications Research (bellcore!psl)
