.TH REVERB 1 "October 26, 1989"
.AT 3
.SH NAME
reverb \- generate reverberation for \(*m-law audio data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B reverb
[\fB\-g\fIdB\fR]
[\fB\-r\fIsec\fR]
[\fB\-s\fI#\fR]
[\fB\-t\fIdB\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIReverb\fP reads \(*m-law audio data from
the standard input and writes a reverberated copy
to the standard output.
The algorithm uses four modified comb filters in parallel to generate
reverberation with controlled decay times.
This technique generates similar results to that in rev(1), but is
much faster.
.IP \-g
set the reverberation attenuation to \fIdB\fP decibels.
Setting this value lower (less attenuation) will make the sound source
seem farther away; setting it higher (more attenuation, so less reverb
``in the mix'') will make the sound source seem more ``present.''.
The default is \fB\-g6\fP.
.IP \-r
set the reverberation time to the specified number of seconds.
Reverberation time is the time it takes the reverberation to die down to
\(ap0.1% of the original signal (60 dB down).
The default is \fB\-r1.0\fP (characteristic of a fairly live chamber).
.IP \-s
set the room size to \fI#\fP.
The values range from 1 (small room) to 9 (large room).
This parameter sets the lengths of the shift registers in the four comb filters
used to make the reverberation.
The default is \fB\-s5\fP.
.IP \-t
set the ending threshold to \-\fIdB\fP decibels.
Since the reverberation will extend beyond the end of the original sound sample
some level must be chosen at which the output can be called silent.
When the output drops to \fIdB\fP decibels down from the maximum, the output
will be allowed to stop.
The default is \fB\-t30\fP which is \(ap3% of full scale (the standard
for professional audio work is 60 dB, \(ap0.1% of full scale).
.SH SEE ALSO
aecho(1), allpass(3), comb(3), rev(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Langston, Bell Communications Research (bellcore!psl)
