.TH TRANSPOSE 1 "MIDI"
.SH NAME
transpose - transpose MIDI files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B transpose
[\fIAMTLIST\fP]
[\fICHAN\fP\fB=\fP\fIAMTLIST\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Transpose
copies its input to its output, shifting the pitch of key-on and key-off
events in its input by the specified amount.
\fIAMTLIST\fP is one or more transposition amounts separated by commas.
If two amounts are given, each note will be duplicated in the output,
each transposed by the specified amount.
.PP
Transposition amounts are either specified as a signed decimal integer,
representing the transposition in half-steps (e.g. \fB\-7\fP is down a fifth),
or as a signed decimal integer followed by the letter \fBo\fP,
representing the transposition in octaves (e.g. \fB2o\fP is up two octaves).
Therefore \fB12\fP, \fB+12\fP, \fB1o\fP, and \fB+1o\fP all mean one octave up
while \fB\-12\fP and \fB\-1o\fP both mean one octave down.
.PP
If a channel is specified (\fICHAN\fB=\fIAMTLIST\fR),
only that channel is transposed (channels are numbered 1 to 16).
Multiple channels may be transposed by using multiple arguments;
e.g. \fB2=\-1o 4=0,\-1o 5=3\fP
will transpose channel 2 down an octave,
transpose channel 4 down an octave, include an untransposed copy of channel 4,
and transpose channel 5 up 3 half-steps.
.PP
If no channel is specified, \fIall\fP channels will be transposed.
Evaluation is left-to-right; thus a specification of \fB+12 2=0\fP
is perfectly reasonable, (transpose all channels \fIexcept 2\fP up an octave);
while a specification of \fB2=0 +12\fP is identical to \fB+12\fP.
.PP
A transposition of \fB0\fP is legal (but only marginally useful).
However, there \fImust\fP be at least one transposition argument specified,
even if it's only \fB0\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
.Cs
transpose <alto \-5 >tenor
transpose <combo 1=1o 2=\-1o >newcombo
transpose <trio 15=0,\-1o >fattrio
.Ce
The first example shifts everything in ``alto'' down a fourth.
The second example transposes key events on channel 1 up an octave,
transposes key events on channel 2 down an octave, and leaves everything
else untransposed.
The third example doubles the events on channel 15 an octave lower.
.SH SEE ALSO
chmap(1), merge(1), filter(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Langston, Bell Communications Research (bellcore!psl)
